
# Prediction Of Global Sales Of Video Games using Machine Learning

 ### Type : Multivariate

 ### Analysis Type : Regression

 ## Description :

 In this project I am predicting the Global Sales of Video Games.
 This project aims to develop and compare different machine learning regressors for predicting the global sales of video games based on the features of Video games.
 ### About the dataset :
The dataset used in this project contains a list of video games with  sales greater than 100,000 copies.It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com.
It contains a total of 16,719 values.
 Each row in the dataset represents a game, whereas, each column contains different attributes.It contains   information regarding the sales of video games across various regions like North America, Europe, Japan and also globally, while also  giving information regarding the Names, Publishers,Genre and Platforms,Critic Score,Critic Count,User Score,User Count,Developer,Ratings.

#### The Fields include:
#### Name - The name of the game.
#### Platform- The platform on which the game was released.
#### Year_of_Release- The year in which the game was released.
#### Genre-The genre of the game.
#### Publisher-The publisher of the game.
#### NA_Sales, EU_Sales, JP_Sales , Other_Sales, Global_Sales - Sales made by a particular game in North America, Europe, Japan,                                         Other  regions and Globally (in millions).
#### Critic_score - Aggregate score compiled by Metacritic staff.
#### Critic_count - The number of critics used in coming up with the Critic_score. 
#### User_score -  Score by Metacritic's subscribers.
#### User_count - Number of users who gave the user_score.
#### Developer - Party responsible for creating the     game.
#### Rating -  The ESRB Rating.

This dataset is split into a 80% training set and 20% testing set with fixed random state zero.
Here missing values are present.So we have to pre-process the data.However, the features are on different scales, so we will need to normalize them by standardscaler before training the machine learning model.

### Model
The model used in this project is a Ridge Regressor, which is a popular machine learning algorithm used for regression.We use the Scikit-learn library in python to build the Ridge Regressor. We trained the model using the training dataset and evaluated it's performance on the test dataset.We used various evaluatin metrics such as RMSE, MSE, MAE, R2 SCORE to asses the performance of the Model.

### Data Source
The source of the dataset is from Kaggle, the dataset company.
##### You can download the dataset from this link :
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rush4ratio/video-game-sales-with-ratings

### Conclusion
Based on the analysis of the Global Video Games Sales
Prediction dataset using the Ridge Regressor, we were able to achieve a RMSE of 0.0056 and Score of 99.38% . By comparing the actual value and predicted value ,we can easily understands that there is less error between them. So we can conclude that Ridge Regressor is a Best regression model for the data And using Ridge we can predict the Global Sales very accurately and with very less error.
Overall, this project demonstrates the application of machine learning algorithms to real-world problems and how they can be used to make data-driven decisions. 


